Numbers 14:17-20
================

    (Moses said to the Lord) "Now may the Lord's strength be displayed, just as you have declared:
    'The Lord is slow to anger, abounding in love and forgiving sin and rebellion.
    Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished, he punishes the children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation.'
    In accordance with your great love, forgive the sin of these people, just as you have pardoned them from the time they left Egypt until now."

Love Note
---------

    Loved one,

    Check out this description of me:
    One who is incredibly patient, 100 percent reliable, forgiving (no matter how many times it takes!) and forever attentive to my children's pleas.
    Guess what?
    I haven't changed.

    --- The God of Moses

Commentary
----------

While the text does say that God abounds in love, the annotation's specific claims are not supported.

incredibly patient
""""""""""""""""""

The point of Moses' plea in verses 13-19 was to convince God to not "strike [the Israelites] down with a plague and destroy them... leaving none alive" (verses 12,15).
God ended up killing only *some* of the Israelites, not *all* of them (verses 36-38).
I find it difficult to imagine this "incredibly patient."

100 percent reliable
""""""""""""""""""""

After Moses makes his plea, God goes back on His word replying, "[n]\ :spelling:ignore:`ot` one of you will enter the land I swore with uplifted hand to make your home" in verse 30.
The Amalekites and Canaanites "attacked" and "beat [the Israelites] down" (verse 45) despite the Israelites being told they'd expel their enemies.

forgiving (no matter how many times it takes!)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

As stated above, God killed some of the Israelites anyways.
I find it difficult to imagine this qualifying as "forgiving."

forever attentive to my children's pleas
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This could be argued depending on what is meant by "attentive."
The Israelites were complaining about having to kill and displace the people already living in their God-given land.
Moses asked for God to "give it" to the Israelites and let them "devour" their enemies.
God instead tells them that they shall not get the land but instead "will meet their end in this wilderness; here they will die."

While unrelated, it is also interesting to note that God decides to make the children and grandchildren "suffer for [their parents'] unfaithfulness" for forty years until the last of their parents' bodies "falls in this wilderness" (verses 31-35).
