Numbers 23:19
=============

    ("What did the Lord say?"
    Then [Balaam] spoke his message:)

    "God is not human, that he should lie, not a human being, that he should change his mind.
    Does he speak and then not act?
    Does he promise and not fulfill?"

Love Note
---------

    My child,

    You live in a world where everything's always changing.
    But there are two constants: my Word and me.
    If I said it, I'll do it.
    My Word never fails.
    I'll never say one thing and do another.

    --- The everlasting One

Commentary
----------

In the preceding chapters, Balaam is asked to go with some men to curse the Israelites.
Balaam dutifully asks for "the answer the Lord gives" him.
God says "[d]o not go with them."
Balaam does not go.

Later, Balaam is asked again to go with some men to curse the Israelites.
Balaam reiterates his choice to obey "the command of the Lord my God," saying he won't go even for "all the silver and gold" in the palace.
But God comes at night and says to "go with them."

Balaam obeys and leaves the next morning.
"But God was very angry... and the angel of the Lord stood in the road to oppose him."
Balaam reconsiders his journey and submissively says "if you are displeased, I will go back."
But the angel replies "Go with the men."

In 1 Kings 22:19-23, God summons asks for suggestions about how to convince a king to start a war and be killed.
One suggests lying to the king.
God approves of this.

    [T]he Lord said, "Who will entice Ahab into attacking Ramoth Gilead and going to his death there?"

    \... a spirit came forward, stood before the Lord, and said, "I will entice him...
    I will go out and be a deceiving spirit"

    "You will succeed in enticing him," said the Lord.
    "Go and do it."

    So now the Lord has put a deceiving spirit in the mouths of all these prophets of yours.

Perhaps it may be that one can distinguish between God directly and indirectly lying, but it offers little consolation.
